Changing License (#281)
OpenIPSL/OpenIPSL: .github/CONTRIBUTING.md

# Contributing to OpenIPSL

Thank you for considering investing your time to contribute to OpenIPSL! :tada::+1:

> Here, you will find a set of guidelines for contributing to the OpenIPSL, which is hosted in the [OpenIPSL page](https://github.com/OpenIPSL) on GitHub. Many of the instructions in this document are considered to be suggestions rather than strict rules, so please use your best judgement when reading this document and when contributing to OpenIPSL. In addition, you can find some tips and good practices in [GitHub's Contribution Guideline](https://github.com/github/docs/blob/3c5055fc4eecf3f83560419d94be54458c2f56a1/CONTRIBUTING.md) and in [Atom's Contribution Guideline](https://github.com/atom/atom/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here, you will find a set of guidelines for contributing to the OpenIPSL, which is hosted on the [OpenIPSL page](https://github.com/OpenIPSL/OpenIPSL) on GitHub. Many of the instructions in this document are considered to be suggestions rather than strict rules, so please use your best judgement when reading this document and when contributing to OpenIPSL. In addition, you can find some tips and good practices in [GitHub's Contribution Guideline](https://github.com/github/docs/blob/3c5055fc4eecf3f83560419d94be54458c2f56a1/CONTRIBUTING.md) and in [Atom's Contribution Guideline](https://github.com/atom/atom/blob/master/CONTRIBUTING.md).
```

  * [Improving Models in the Library](#improving-models-in-the-library-rocket)

[The Contributor License Agreement](#the-contributor-license-agreement)

## Code of conduct

OpenIPSL and all of its contributors are governed by the [OpenIPSL Code of Conduct](CODE_OF_CONDUCT.md). By participating in this community you are expected to read this code and to abide by it. We expect you to keep our community approachable and respectable.

## I Just Have a Question!!!

If you just have a question, there is no need for you to read this entire document. Use our [Discussions Page](https://github.com/OpenIPSL/OpenIPSL/discussions) to start a question. It is better (and faster) to reach out to the developers by asking a question. In addition, discussions can further be filed as an issue, so you can easily start your contribution by starting a discussion.

> **Note:** PLEASE DON'T FILE AN ISSUE TO ASK A QUESTION.

## Getting Started

There are many different resources that can be used for getting started with the different subjects that involve a contribution to OpenIPSL. There are a few things that you, as user, might want to check beforehand. 

### Join GitHub

> However you decide to contribute to OpenIPSL you should fist create your GitHub account, if you do not have one already. To create your account, just go to this [website](https://github.com/join), fill out the form, complete the captcha and click on Create Account. After that, you will need some material to get started with your git skills. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However you decide to contribute to OpenIPSL you should fist create your GitHub account, if you do not have one already. To create your account, just go to [GitHub's join page](https://github.com/join), fill out the form, complete the captcha and click on Create Account. After that, you will need some material to get started with your git skills. 
```

### Getting Used to Git

Git is a version control solution that is used to manage the library and its model packages. The following is a list of things that can help you with getting started with Git.

> * Since you already have a GitHub account at this point, you can start by setting up Git. Useful information about that is found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git), but you can also use your web search tool to look for other sources of information.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Since you already have a GitHub account at this point, you can start by setting up Git. Useful information about that is found on [GitHub's quick start guide](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/set-up-git), but you can also use your web search tool to look for other sources of information.
```

> * [Basic information](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-git-and-how-to-use-it-c341b049ae61/) and [courses](https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-git-github?specialization=google-it-automation&utm_source=gg&utm_medium=sem&utm_campaign=11-GoogleITwithPython-US&utm_content=B2C&campaignid=8986236679&adgroupid=119480419197&device=c&keyword=&matchtype=&network=g&devicemodel=&adpostion=&creativeid=506915205324&hide_mobile_promo&gclid=Cj0KCQiAmpyRBhC-ARIsABs2EArPYPiHJtm3mb-36DSvRCt1Wpfflnigi5fhsoJiwSZnLkKULI0dwVUaArxtEALw_wcB) about Git are available in the internet and we strongly encourage you to look for those materials if you are not used to version control and Git.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* [Basic information](https://www.freecodecamp.org/news/what-is-git-and-how-to-use-it-c341b049ae61/) and [courses](https://www.coursera.org/learn/introduction-git-github) about Git are available in the internet and we strongly encourage you to look for those materials if you are not used to version control and Git.
```

The links used in this section are just suggestions and we encourage you to look for more materials related to Git and GitHub.

### Common Workflow for Contributing to OpenIPSL

Once you have created your GitHub account and you familiarized yourself with Git and GitHub, it is time for you to get to know the typical preferred workflow for contributing to the OpenIPSL. This will allow your contribution to be reviewed by the OpenIPSL developers before it is integrated into the library. The following is a list showing the steps that should be taken in order for a contribution workflow to be established.

> * **Fork the OpenIPSL.** A fork is a copy of a repository that will be hosted, in this case, in your GitHub account. More information about forks is found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Fork the OpenIPSL.** A fork is a copy of a repository that will be hosted, in this case, in your GitHub account. More information about forks is found on [GitHub's quick start guide](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/fork-a-repo).
```

> * **Create a Branch.** The branch will allow you to work with a version of your fork. It also allows for other people to contribute with your work without compromising the main branch of the fork and, especially, the main branch of the OpenIPSL. A branch name usually describes the main purpose of that branch. More information about branches is found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Create a Branch.** The branch will allow you to work with a version of your fork. It also allows for other people to contribute with your work without compromising the main branch of the fork and, especially, the main branch of the OpenIPSL. A branch name usually describes the main purpose of that branch. More information about branches is found on [GitHub's quick start guide](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/quickstart/github-flow).
```

> * **Make Changes to the Branch.** You can work on your branch by creating, deleting and modifying branches. To your changes to take effect, you will need to stage the altered files and to commit them. Please use meaningful messages when commiting your changes. The modifications you perform will be available in your fork's branch once you push your local copy to its remote version. More information about this procedure can be consulted [here](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Make Changes to the Branch.** You can work on your branch by creating, deleting and modifying branches. To your changes to take effect, you will need to stage the altered files and to commit them. Please use meaningful messages when commiting your changes. The modifications you perform will be available in your fork's branch once you push your local copy to its remote version. More information about this procedure can be consulted on [GitHub's get started guide](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/using-git/about-git).
```

> * **Create the Pull Request.** After you are done with your changes, it is possible to submit a Pull Request (PR), which means that you will formally submit changes to be incorporated into OpenIPSL. Information about collaboration through PRs can be found [here](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Create the Pull Request.** After you are done with your changes, it is possible to submit a Pull Request (PR), which means that you will formally submit changes to be incorporated into OpenIPSL. Information about collaboration through PRs can be found on [GitHub's documentation](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests).
```

> * **Address Reviewer's Comments.** The procedure for having your contributions added to the OpenIPSL via PR is an iterative process. This means that you will submit your suggested changes and it is very likely that we will review your code and request for changes to be implemented. This back-and-forth part will lead to discussions and the main benefit from this process is the possibility of making our library better and even more robust. You can apply suggested changes directly through GitHub UI. You can make any other changes in your fork, then commit them to your branch. When you push your branch, the modifications will automatically appear in the open PR.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Address Reviewer's Comments.** The procedure for having your contributions added to the OpenIPSL via PR is an iterative process. This means that you will submit your suggested changes and it is very likely that we will review your code and request for changes to be implemented. This back-and-forth part will lead to discussions and the main benefit from this process is the possibility of making our library better and even more robust. You can apply suggested changes directly through the GitHub UI. You can make any other changes in your fork, then commit them to your branch. When you push your branch, the modifications will automatically appear in the open PR.
```

* Use a clear and descriptive title when opening the issue. This help developers to identify the problem more easily.
* Provide a description of the steps you have taken to reproduce the problem with as many details as you can. Don't just explain what you did, but include the information on how you did it.
* Describe what behavior you observed after following the steps and what was the behavior you were expecting to observe. Also provide the reason why you expected to observe a different outcome.
* Include screenshots, files, plots and commands that you used when you experienced the problem as means to illustrate the issue.
* In addition, please provide the description of the Modelica-compliant software that was used when you experienced the problem. Some issues can be tool-related and this allow us to help their developers to improve their tool.

### Improving Documentation :memo:

The documentation of the OpenIPSL is located within the Modelica package. This documentation is added via annotations in the Modelica models and there are even dedicated files inside the library that are basically composed of annotations.

> In addition to that, markdown files are present in many folders of the library, providing description to the many aspects of this library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> Indeed, the main goal of the documentation is to provide information on the development conventions adopted for this project, and provide a guide to the contributors of the project. If you want to contribute to building a better documentation, you can first start by learning about [Markdown](https://docs.github.com/en/get-started/writing-on-github/getting-started-with-writing-and-formatting-on-github/about-writing-and-formatting-on-github) and about [Modelica Annotations](https://mbe.modelica.university/behavior/equations/annotations/) if you are not familiar with these concepts yet. Please, visit the [Issues List](https://github.com/OpenIPSL/OpenIPSL/issues) since there are Documentation-related issues that can help you better understand what is needed by OpenIPSL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Indeed, the main goal of the documentation is to provide information on the development conventions adopted for this project, and provide a guide to the contributors of the project. If you want to contribute to building a better documentation, you can start by learning about [Modelica Annotations](https://mbe.modelica.university/behavior/equations/annotations/) if you are not familiar with this concept yet. Please, visit the [Issues List](https://github.com/OpenIPSL/OpenIPSL/issues) since there are Documentation-related issues that can help you better understand what is needed by OpenIPSL.
```
